If debugging is the process of removing software bugs, then programming must be the process of putting them in. - Edsger Dijkstra
Always code as if the guy who ends up maintaining your code will be a violent psychopath who knows where you live. - Martin Golding
Most good programmers do programming not because they expect to get paid or get adulation by the public, but because it is fun to program. - Linus Torvalds
If builders built buildings the way programmers wrote programs, then the first woodpecker that came along would destroy civilization." - Gerald Weinberg
One man’s crappy software is another man’s full time job. - Jessica Gaston
The trouble with programmers is that you can never tell what a programmer is doing until it’s too late. - Seymour Cray
A computer lets you make more mistakes faster than any other invention in human history, with the possible exceptions of handguns and tequila. - Mitch Ratcliffe
Good judgement comes from experience, and experience comes from bad judgement. - Fred Brooks
People who are really serious about software should make their own hardware. - Alan Kay
I think complexity is mostly sort of crummy stuff that is there because it's too expensive to change the interface. - Jaron Lanier
Doing linear scans over an associative array is like trying to club someone to death with a loaded Uzi. - Larry Wall
Civilization advances by extending the number of important operations which we can perform without thinking of them. - Alfred North Whitehead
If you think technology can solve your security problems, then you don't understand the problems and you don't understand the technology. - Bruce Schneier
Your work is going to fill a large part of your life, and the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great work. And the only way to do great work is to love what you do. If you haven't found it yet, keep looking. Don't settle. As with all matters of the heart, you'll know when you find it. - Steve Jobs
Stay hungry, stay foolish. - Steve Jobs
Most good programmers do programming not because they expect to get paid or get adulation by the public, but because it is fun to program. - Linus Torvalds
It's hardware that makes a machine fast. It's software that makes a fast machine slow. - Craig Bruce
It's hard enough to find an error in your code when you're looking for it; it's even harder when you've assumed your code is error-free. - Steve McConnell
Debugging is twice as hard as writing the code in the first place. Therefore, if you write the code as cleverly as possible, you are, by definition, not smart enough to debug it. - Brian Kernighan
It's not at all important to get it right the first time. It's vitally important to get it right the last time. - Andrew Hunt and David Thomas
Any fool can write code that a computer can understand. Good programmers write code that humans can understand. - Martin Fowler
Copy and paste is a design error. - David Parnas
Without requirements or design, programming is the art of adding bugs to an empty text file. - Louis Srygley
Often designers do complicated things that improve the capacity on a particular hardware platform when it might actually be cheaper to buy more hardware. - Martin Fowler
When you find you have to add a feature to a program, and the program's code is not structured in a convenient way to add the feature, first refactor the program to make it easy to add the feature, then add the feature. - Martin Fowler
The definition I use for pattern is an idea that has been useful in one practical context and will probably be useful in others - Martin Fowler
When you feel the need to write a comment, first try to refactor the code so that any comment becomes superfluous. - Martin Fowler
Wheel reinvention is a constant problem for software engineers. It is not that we like doing things over and over. It is just that sometimes when you are designing systems it is hard to realize that the circular friction reduction device with a central axis that you have just built is, in fact, a wheel. - Russ Olsen
Whenever you put in a feature before you really need it, you are guilty of programming while stupid; if you wait until you really need the thing, you are likely to have a better understanding of what you need to do and how you should go about doing it. - Russ Olsen
A long descriptive name is better than a long descriptive comment. - Robert C. Martin
The majority of the cost of a software project is in long-term maintenance. - Robert C. Martin
Just because something is easy to measure doesn't mean it's important. - David Heinemeier Hansson
Perfectionism is a self destructive and addictive belief system that fuels this primary thought: If I look perfect, and do everything perfectly, I can avoid or minimise the painful feelings of shame, judgment, and blame. - Brené Brown
Humans are allergic to change. They love to say, ‘We’ve always done it this way.’ I try to fight that. That’s why I have a clock on my wall that runs counterclockwise. - Grace Hopper
Nothing in life is to be feared, it is only to be understood. Now is the time to understand more, so that we may fear less. - Marie Curie
It’s not enough to be aware of the possibilities. You have to believe that your goals are attainable. First, can you see yourself, picture yourself as an engineer? I strongly believe that belief in yourself stems from belief in your role models. - Alicia Ramos
Life doesn’t always present you with the perfect opportunity at the perfect time. Opportunities come when you least expect them, or when you’re not ready for them… Opportunities, the good ones… are hard to recognize. They’re risky. They challenge you. - Susan Wojcicki
Love what you do and do what you love. Doing something new and different requires a level of drive and passion that is really hard to fake. When your heart is behind what you are doing, so much is possible. - Tracy Sun
Novice programmers don’t yet have the skills to write simple code. - Sandi Metz
Successful (working) but undesigned applications carry the seeds of their own destruction; they are easy to write, but gradually become impossible to change. - Sandi Metz
We think awful code is written by awful devs. But in reality it's written by reasonable devs in awful circumstances. - Sarah Mei

