Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic. - Arthur C. Clarke
The Linux philosophy is 'Laugh in the face of danger'. Oops. Wrong One. 'Do it yourself'. Yes, that's it. - Linus Torvalds
Relying on the government to protect your privacy is like asking a peeping tom to install your window blinds. - John Perry Barlow
People who are really serious about software should make their own hardware. - Alan Kay
Microsoft isn't evil, they just make really crappy operating systems. - Linus Torvalds
I think complexity is mostly sort of crummy stuff that is there because it's too expensive to change the interface. - Jaron Lanier
Doing linear scans over an associative array is like trying to club someone to death with a loaded Uzi. - Larry Wall
Civilization advances by extending the number of important operations which we can perform without thinking of them. - Alfred North Whitehead
The easiest way to stop piracy is not by putting antipiracy technology to work. It's by giving those people a service that's better than what they're receiving from the pirates. - Gabe Newell
If you think technology can solve your security problems, then you don't understand the problems and you don't understand the technology. - Bruce Schneier
That's been one of my mantras - focus and simplicity. Simple can be harder than complex: You have to work hard to get your thinking clean to make it simple. But it's worth it in the end because once you get there, you can move mountains. - Steve Jobs
Your work is going to fill a large part of your life, and the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great work. And the only way to do great work is to love what you do. If you haven't found it yet, keep looking. Don't settle. As with all matters of the heart, you'll know when you find it. - Steve Jobs
Stay hungry, stay foolish. - Steve Jobs
You can't just ask customers what they want and then try to give that to them. By the time you get it built, they'll want something new. - Steve Jobs
Intelligence is the ability to avoid doing work, yet getting the work done. - Linus Torvalds
I'd much rather have 15 people arguing about something than 15 people splitting into two camps, each side convinced it's right and not talking to the other. - Linus Torvalds
Most good programmers do programming not because they expect to get paid or get adulation by the public, but because it is fun to program. - Linus Torvalds
Once you start thinking more about where you want to be than about making the best product, you're screwed. - Linus Torvalds
When you say 'I wrote a program that crashed Windows,' people just stare at you blankly and say 'Hey, I got those with the system, for free.’ - Linus Torvalds
Programmers are in the enviable position of not only getting to do what they want to, but because the end result is so important they get paid to do it. There are other professions like that, but not that many. - Linus Torvalds
It's hardware that makes a machine fast. It's software that makes a fast machine slow. - Craig Bruce
It's hard enough to find an error in your code when you're looking for it; it's even harder when you've assumed your code is error-free. - Steve McConnell
Debugging is twice as hard as writing the code in the first place. Therefore, if you write the code as cleverly as possible, you are, by definition, not smart enough to debug it. - Brian Kernighan
It's not at all important to get it right the first time. It's vitally important to get it right the last time. - Andrew Hunt and David Thomas
Any fool can write code that a computer can understand. Good programmers write code that humans can understand. - Martin Fowler
Copy and paste is a design error. - David Parnas
Without requirements or design, programming is the art of adding bugs to an empty text file. - Louis Srygley
Often designers do complicated things that improve the capacity on a particular hardware platform when it might actually be cheaper to buy more hardware. - Martin Fowler
When you find you have to add a feature to a program, and the program's code is not structured in a convenient way to add the feature, first refactor the program to make it easy to add the feature, then add the feature. - Martin Fowler
The definition I use for pattern is an idea that has been useful in one practical context and will probably be useful in others - Martin Fowler
When you feel the need to write a comment, first try to refactor the code so that any comment becomes superfluous. - Martin Fowler
Wheel reinvention is a constant problem for software engineers. It is not that we like doing things over and over. It is just that sometimes when you are designing systems it is hard to realize that the circular friction reduction device with a central axis that you have just built is, in fact, a wheel. - Russ Olsen
Whenever you put in a feature before you really need it, you are guilty of programming while stupid; if you wait until you really need the thing, you are likely to have a better understanding of what you need to do and how you should go about doing it. - Russ Olsen
If you're good at the debugger it means you spent a lot of time debugging. I don't want you to be good at the debugger. ― Robert C. Martin
What would happen if you allowed a bug to slip through a module, and it cost your company $10,000? The nonprofessional would shrug his shoulders, say “stuff happens,” and start writing the next module. The professional would write the company a check for $10,000! - Robert C. Martin
So if you want to go fast, if you want to get done quickly, if you want your code to be easy to write, make it easy to read. - Robert C. Martin
A long descriptive name is better than a long descriptive comment. - Robert C. Martin
Every time you write a comment, you should grimace and feel the failure of your ability of expression. - Robert C. Martin
Redundant comments are just places to collect lies and misinformation. - Robert C. Martin
When you are working on a problem, you sometimes get so close to it that you can’t see all the options. You miss elegant solutions because the creative part of your mind is suppressed by the intensity of your focus. Sometimes the best way to solve a problem is to go home, eat dinner, watch TV, go to bed, and then wake up the next morning and take a shower. - Robert C. Martin
Who can justify the expense of a six-lane highway through the middle of a small town that anticipates growth? Who would want such a road through their town? - Robert C. Martin
The functionality that you create today has a good chance of changing in the next release, but the readability of your code will have a profound effect on all the changes that will ever be made. - Robert C. Martin
The majority of the cost of a software project is in long-term maintenance. - Robert C. Martin
Error handling is important, but if it obscures logic, it’s wrong. - Robert C. Martin
When you see commented-out code, delete it! - Robert C. Martin
The only way to make the deadline—the only way to go fast—is to keep the code as clean as possible at all times. - Robert C. Martin
Few practices are as odious as commenting-out code. Don’t do this! - Robert C. Martin
Try to write tests that force exceptions, and then add behavior to your handler to satisfy your tests. This will cause you to build the transaction scope of the try block first and will help you maintain the transaction nature of that scope. - Robert C. Martin
It is unit tests that keep our code flexible, maintainable, and reusable. The reason is simple. If you have tests, you do not fear making changes to the code! Without tests every change is a possible bug. - Robert C. Martin
In an ideal system, we incorporate new features by extending the system, not by making modifications to existing code. - Robert C. Martin
Whatever else a TODO might be, it is not an excuse to leave bad code in the system. - Robert C. Martin
First Law You may not write production code until you have written a failing unit test. Second Law You may not write more of a unit test than is sufficient to fail, and not compiling is failing. Third Law You may not write more production code than is sufficient to pass the currently failing test. - Robert C. Martin
What makes a clean test? Three things. Readability, readability, and readability. - Robert C. Martin
Don’t Use a Comment When You Can Use a Function or a Variable - Robert C. Martin
The proper use of comments is to compensate for our failure to express ourself in code. Note that I used the word failure. I meant it. Comments are always failures. - Robert C. Martin
Any comment that forces you to look in another module for the meaning of that comment has failed to communicate to you and is not worth the bits it consumes. - Robert C. Martin
Whether you are designing systems or individual modules, never forget to use the simplest thing that can possibly work. - Robert C. Martin
There was a time, back in the sixties, when commenting-out code might have been useful. But we’ve had good source code control systems for a very long time now. Those systems will remember the code for us. We don’t have to comment it out any more. Just delete the code. We won’t lose it. Promise. - Robert C. Martin
The ideal numbers of arguments for a function is zero (niladic). Next comes one (monadic), followed closely by two (dyadic). Three arguments (triadic) should be avoided where possible. More than three (polyadic) requires very special justification ‐ and then shouldn't be used anyway. - Robert C. Martin
The first rule of functions is that they should be small. The second rule of functions is that they should be smaller than that. - Robert C. Martin
Functions should do one thing. They should do it well. They should do it only. - Robert C. Martin
Just because something is easy to measure doesn't mean it's important. - David Heinemeier Hansson